--- 
title: "Privacy policy and terms and conditions" 
permalink: /inex/legal/
date: 2016-12-12
author_profile: false
---

{% include base_path %}

{% include toc %}
 
Effective as of 12 December 2016.
{: .notice--info}

By installing InEx mobile application or in other way using or accessing our
Services, the user (hereinafter the "user") accepts the terms and conditions of
this Privacy Policy and the processing of the user's personal data.

InEx is made available to the User free of charge. 

# OUR PRIVACY POLICY

This privacy policy governs your use of the software application InEx
("Application") for mobile devices that was created by Future Zooming. The
Application is helping users to track their breathing and meditative practice
with minimum distraction. The Application stores stopwatch-recorded times and
presents simple graphs showing user progress over time. 

The following privacy statement describes how Future Zooming collects and uses
the information you provide. You are not required to provide Future Zooming
with personally identifiable information in order to use our apps, including
your name, address and login credentials to a third party site.

## Data Collection and Use

What information does the Application obtain and how is it used? 
We don't collect any of your personal data.

Does the Application collect precise real time location information of the
device?  This Application does not collect precise information about the
location of your mobile device. 

The Application may collect certain information automatically,
including, but not limited to, the type of mobile device you use, your mobile
devices unique device ID, the IP address of your mobile device, your mobile
operating system, the type of mobile Internet browsers you use, and information
about the way you use the Application. 

We gather information that is automatically provided by
Google Developer Console and its built-in Google Analytics, that includes
general data about app's Google Play page traffic and users' demography.

InEx is partially provided via App Stores and their associated infrastructure,
among others for push messages to the User as well as the billing and
management of paid features. The User shall use such App Stores independent
from Future Zooming and the respective Privacy Policies shall apply.

The above information is not linked to your identity.

### Children 

We do not use the Application to knowingly solicit data from or market to
children under the age of 13. If a parent or guardian becomes aware that his or
her child has provided us with information without their consent, he or she
should contact us at
[futurezooming+inex@gmail.com](mailto:future.zooming+inex@gmail.com). We will
delete such information from our files within a reasonable time.

## Social Networks

We may enable you to share app-generated content with others via Facebook,
Twitter, email, text message, etc. We cannot control the actions of others with
whom you choose to share your information. Also, we cannot guarantee that the
content you post will not be viewed by others outside your network. Once you
share your content, the privacy policy of the chosen medium applies. Future
Zooming is not privy to your social network username, password or content.
While you may be required to sign in with your Facebook account, that data is
not passed on to Future Zooming.

## Notification of Privacy Statement Changes

Changes This Privacy Policy may be updated from time to time for any reason. We
will notify you of any changes to our Privacy Policy by posting the new Privacy
Policy [http://futurezoom.in/inex/legal](http://futurezoom.in/inex/legal). You
are advised to consult this Privacy Policy regularly for any changes, as
continued use is deemed approval of all changes. 
 

# TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Thank you for using our products and services (the “Service/s”). 
Future Zooming ("Us" or "We") provides the InEx app and related services
(collectively, the "Application") to you, the user, subject to your compliance
with all the terms, conditions, and notices contained or referenced herein (the
"Terms"), as well as any other written agreement between us and you. 

In addition, when using particular services or materials on this Application,
users shall be subject to any posted rules applicable to such services or
materials that may contain terms and conditions in addition to those in these
Terms of Use.  All such guidelines or rules are hereby incorporated by
reference into these Terms of Use.

By using our Services you accept and agree to these Terms and Conditions
(“Terms”). Therefore, it is important that you carefully read through these
Terms. If you do not consent to these Terms, you should not use the Application.

## Using our Services

To use our Services you must follow some simple rules. The Service is only
available for your private use and is not intended for commercial use. Do not
misuse the Services, so that either Future Zooming or anyone else is harmed in any
way. You may only use the Services as permitted by law and these Terms. By
using our Services, you agree that:

 * You are solely responsible for all activities on your account and all the content that is uploaded and/or created using InEx (“User Material”).
 * You may not engage in any commercial activities, advertise and/or provide hints (such as links) on where commercial activities are present through our Services.
 * You may not contribute with any propaganda, religious and/or political views, or contribute with information which in any way contains or involves incitement to racial hatred, child pornography or pornography through the use of our Services. Further, you may not defame, harass or offend other people through the use of our Services.
 * If you have any criticism or feedback regarding InEx or our Services, to firstly contact Future Zooming help us to improve our Services.
 * You may not transmit, and/or distribute files that may damage Future Zooming or others’ computers or property (such as viruses and trojan horses).

## Health information

You are responsible for your own health. We are not licensed medical
professionals, and we are not in the business of providing medical advice or
diagnosis.  This document or the use of InEx does not contain or constitute,
and should not be interpreted as, medical advice or opinion.  The purpose of
the Services is solely to help our users to record their progress in breathing
practices. Information made available through the Services and by our partners
and affiliates shall solely be used for recreational and educational purposes.
You should always consult a qualified and licensed medical professional prior
to beginning or modifying your lifestyle habits. Always consult with your
doctor before starting a breathing practice or fitness program or if you
experience any pain or discomfort. Future Zooming cannot guarantee any health,
weight and/or fitness results or improvements. Our Services are only intended
for healthy adults, and please do not use our Services if you suffer from, or
might suffer from, any medical condition that may be impaired by breathing,
meditation, or exercise. Future Zooming is not responsible for any personal
injury or any other damages that may have been the result, direct or indirect,
of any use or misuse of the Services.

## Intellectual property

All rights in and to the Services, including any trademarks, service marks,
trade names and copyrighted content (collectively “Intellectual Property”)
presented within the Service are the property of Future Zooming and/or third
parties. You agree not to use Intellectual Property for any other purposes
except for your use of the Service, unless required otherwise by applicable
mandatory law.

Unless Future Zooming (Owner) has authorized you to distribute the Application,
you shall not make or distribute copies of the Application or transfer the
Application from one device to another. You shall not decompile, reverse engineer,
disassemble, include in other software, or translate the Application, or use the
Application for any commercial purposes. You shall not modify, alter, change or
otherwise make any modification to the Application or create derivative works
based upon the Application. You shall not rent, lease, resell, sub-license,
assign, distribute or otherwise transfer the Application. Any
attempt to do so shall be void and of no effect.



## Disclaimer and limitation of liability

The User shall not be legally entitled to use InEx. Future Zooming may
discontinue its providing of InEx or exclude the User from using InEx at any
time without stating any reasons. Future Zooming may change InEx at any time
without stating any reasons, in particular with regard to paid functionalities,
if any.  

You use the Service at your own risk. The Service is provided “AS IS”, without
any warranties, and Future Zooming does not warrant that the Service and
availability thereof will be uninterrupted or error free. Future Zooming does
not assume any responsibility for errors or omissions in the information or
software or other documents, including User Material, which are referenced by
or linked to. References or links to third parties' websites are provided "AS
IS" without warranty of any kind, either express or implied.
The Service is provided "AS IS" basis, without any technical support or
warranty of any kind including, without limitation, any warranty or condition
of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement.  

In the case of violations of these terms of use and in the case of violation
of rights and corresponding claims of third parties, the User shall expressly
indemnify Future Zooming from any liability and shall be liable for damages
vis-à-vis Future Zooming to the full extent.

In no event shall Future Zooming be liable for any indirect or consequential
damages caused by the use of InEx or in connection with InEx.

Subject to mandatory legal provisions, the use of InEx shall be exclusively
governed by Swiss laws.

## Entire Agreement

These terms and conditions constitute the entire agreement and understanding
between us concerning the subject matter of this agreement and supersedes all
prior agreements and understandings of the parties with respect to that subject
matter. These Terms of Use may not be altered, supplemented, or amended by the
use of any other document(s). Any attempt to alter, supplement or amend this
document or to enter an order for products or services which are subject to
additional or altered terms and conditions shall be null and void, unless
otherwise agreed to in a written agreement signed by you and us. To the extent
that anything in or associated with this App is in conflict or inconsistent
with these Terms of Use, these Terms of Use shall take precedence.

## Miscellaneous

In any action to enforce these Terms of Use, the prevailing party will be
entitled to costs and attorneys' fees. Any cause of action brought by you
against us or our Affiliates must be instituted with one year after the cause
of action arises or be deemed forever waived and barred.

You may not assign your rights and obligations under these Terms of Use to any
party, and any purported attempt to do so will be null and void. We may free
assign our rights and obligations under these Terms of Use.

You agree not to sell, resell, reproduce, duplicate, copy or use for any
commercial purposes any portion of this Application, or use of or access to
this Application.

In addition to any excuse provided by applicable law, we shall be excused from
liability for non-delivery or delay in delivery of products and services
available through our Application arising from any event beyond our reasonable
control, whether or not foreseeable by either party, including but not limited
to, labor disturbance, war, fire, accident, adverse weather, inability to
secure transportation, governmental act or regulation, and other causes or
events beyond our reasonable control, whether or not similar to those which are
enumerated above.  

If any part of these Terms of Use is held invalid or unenforceable, that
portion shall be construed in a manner consistent with applicable law to
reflect, as nearly as possible, the original intentions of the parties, and the
remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.

Any failure by us to enforce or exercise any provision of these Terms of Use or
related rights shall not constitute a waiver of that right or provision.


## Contact

Contact us If you have any questions regarding privacy while using the
Application, or have questions about our practices, please contact us via email
at  [futurezooming+inex@gmail.com](mailto:future.zooming+inex@gmail.com). 
