---
title: "library"
permalink: /library/
---


{% include base_path %}

{% include toc %}

Leaf through some items in my personal library.  
Feel free to pick up what suites your condition.  
<!-- Some books are dusty, I know.  -->


## Culture and living

### Zen and the art of motorcycle maintenance

_by Robert M. Pirsig_

_read on 2014/01_

![]({{ base_path }}/images/book_pirsig.jpg){:  height="" width="135px"} 

One of the strangest books I have ever read, in a positive way. Challenging and
rewarding at the same time, like nothing else. More to the point, it is almost
impossible to say what is this book about. 

For some thoughts I could catalog the book into the PP section. One of the most
prominent thoughts to me is on the importance of being stuck: "Stuckness
shouldn't be avoided. It's the psychic predecessor of all real understanding".

At some point in reading I have got a feeling that I could write my own book,
not because it is easy, but because the book gave me a feeling that I can
express my own thoughts artistically. Great, complex and rewarding reading.

***

### Natasha's Dance: A Cultural History of Russia 

_by Orlando Figes_

_read on 2014/07_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/NatashasDanceUK.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

Figes attempts to seize the immense -- to portray Russian culture and Russian
identity in one book.  The book is a gem for anyone interested in Russian
history, culture and it's people's weirdness. As someone brought up in Russia,
I greatly appreciate the point of view of a foreign observer, who attempted
research of a great scale with a scary amount of facts and background data.
The mass of details is wonderful and overwhelming at moments, almost
encyclopedia-like with a personal voice, where common stories are told through
individual lives. To my delight, this is done without overplaying on Russian
stereotypes. Figes is trying to understand the roots of Russian culture that
decorates Russian people with tormenting contradictions.

This reading must be interesting to my Russian friends as well. Post-soviet
school system was not perfect, we haven't heard a great deal of opinions on the
culture and its roots, just a few selected ones. It is enriching to get an
extended framework to see our culture in the context of other cultures, compare
them, discover the causes and ideas that we share with others, piece together
the pictures of the puzzle.   

My thanks to А.О.

***

### 1984

_by George Orwell_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/1984.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

Who would only know, this is _the_ book that started my serious reading.
__1984__ opened to me the power of books and what they can convey.

My thanks to А.Ж.

***

### Let my people go surfing

_by Yvon Chouinard_

_read on 2014/10_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_yvon.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

I care for the environment we live in. I believe that too many large and small
businesses, good and evil governments are ruining our planet. But I could not
see how to go about it. What can I do? It can be tempting to think that when
(and if) I get into position of power, then I will apply all my knowledge about
green living and working. Tempting and, probably, irresponsible. Yvon teaches
us how to think about being responsible for the environment _now_, no matter
what is our position in life. A great story about a company that actively
responds to the environmental crisis we find ourselves in. Read it, please.


## PP

PP stands for Productivity Porno. I enjoy reading PP, it is addictive.
Nevertheless, I came to realize that it can only affect your life if you make
PP ideas yours, as if they are your own personal thoughts. If you relate to
them, if you internalize them and act on them every day. 

If that is not the case, then reading PP books may even make you feel bad.
This is because you will observe yourself not acting on goals the book helped
you to identify. You will observe that you forgot where did the motivation come
from. And later you will forget the feelings the book triggered in you. 

Having said that, here's my PP list -- enjoyed them all, act on some.

### Linchpin

_by Seth Godin_

_read on 2012/10_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_linchpin.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

There is no benefit in doing less or cutting corners. Do more, do difficult
work, do more art, do it your personal way, ship it.  A great deal of
fundamental ideas about doing and being are spelled out, as well as fears that
surround them.

I love work by Seth. So much motivation and clear unobstructed thinking that
makes you feel "Why didn't I think of this?". 

With all my respect, I have a  personal wish for Seth -- to use the "humor
weapon".  He talks about important things with the air that makes you realize
they are important, but uses almost zero humor. I wish he could do it just like
Zig Ziglar, whom he quotes so often. I wish for it, because his ultimate goal
is positive -- to give people freedom and power of making art -- and so it
should sound positive, and have smiles coming with it along with the hard work
it requires. (I need to work on this as well -- this paragraph is way too
serious :).

***

### Hackers and painters

_by Paul Graham_

_read on 2009/02_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_hackers.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

This book is a selection of Paul's essays, which are numerous. To me, Paul is a
sage, a visionary who questions the past, the present, and senses the trends. I
wish to reread his essays over and over again.  

***

### 4HWW

_by Tim Ferriss_

_read on 2011/03_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_4hww.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

This books was an inspiration for me. It rendered complex questions about
taking control of your life seem easy and feasible. It is both a study book,
and an exercise book that helps you to challenge yourself on the spot inspiring
for action. Starting from self-reflection, it gives you a framework for
managing the fuzz in your life and to be productive.

The book does not help you to answer the question "Why?" -- why should I be
productive, why do X and start business Y. But it does help when you know why
you want to do what you want to do. The book answers the "How?".

The important and often underrated message in the book is that you do not just
jump to the next adventure, but you thoroughly plan a smooth transition. The
book by _Cal Newport_ later in this list gives a great motivation for why
planning the transition is so important.

By following Tim's work after 4HWW for several years, I come to believe that he
did not write the book, but engineered it with some talented people. The
language he uses in interviews, talks and his other books is just too different
from the language in the book. Incredibly, the book is great, but after this
realization (which still is just my personal impression) it lacks for me a
sincere writer and ideology behind it. However, knowing Tim's work now, that is
exactly what he should have done. You need to read the book as if it is sincere
to you and written for you, but after you get the knowledge the book gives you,
you should see it as a manifestation of what it preaches: to use your strongest
personal sides and outsource the rest.

What is great about Tim is that he always leaves you with a multitude of
references to explore and these references are of a great quality. Many books
in this library are from these references. Thank you, Tim.

***

### Why leaders eat last?

_by Simon Sinek_

_read on 2014/05_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_sinek.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

Why to be a leader?  Simon gives you a case for why you have to _choose_ to be
a leader and what it entails. I love how he connects our evolutionary past
(chemicals that flood our brain) and the way we feel about leadership. You need
to understand humans to understand business and working life. 

This is probably the only time I recommend a talk over a book. I think Simon is
a great presenter and I highly recommend watching his talks from 99U: ["Why
leaders eat last"](http://99u.com/videos/20272/simon-sinek-why-leaders-eat-last
"Why Leaders Eat Last") and ["If You Don't Understand People, You Don't
Understand
Business"](http://99u.com/videos/7058/simon-sinek-if-you-dont-understand-people-you-dont-understand-business
"If You Don't Understand People, You Don't Understand Business").

***

### The art of learning

_by Josh Waitzkin_

_read on 2014/06_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_waitzkin.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

I discovered this book through Tim's suggestions after listening to his
[podcast interview with
Josh](http://fourhourworkweek.com/2014/04/22/tim-ferriss-podcast/).  
Just to give a little context, Josh Waitzkin is an 8-time National Chess
Champion, a 13-Time National and 2-time World Champion of Tai Chi Chuan Push
Hands, and a Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Black Belt. He is a president of an
educational non-profit organization.

How a chess world champion player can win Tai Chi championship in Taiwan? You
have to have a winning attitude to achieve that. Ziglar's quote applies here
very well: "In order to win, you must plan to win, prepare to win, and expect
to win". The book shows how winners think, their attitude and guiding principles.

Differently from most PP books, this one has a captivating story and narrative
style. Do not misunderstand me, most of PP books have some personal story
behind them, but they focus on lessons rather than on the story. For most of
them the prose is just a mechanism to convey the message. In contrast, _The art
of learning_ has a deep personal story that is pleasant to read. And on top of
it, the story teaches you masterly.

To me this book underlies the importance of how you convey your message. A
message may be extremely important and timely, but, if you fail to present it
in a compelling way, to a high degree you fail to present it at all. It is not
a reader to make sense of the message, add value to it through thinking and
building thoughts on it. Nope, it is an author's responsibility, deal with it.

*** 

### Verbal Judo

_by George J. Thompson_

_read on 2013/02_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_vj.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

Ever felt condescendence from a stranger? Had quarrels with your mate?  Had to
deal with nasty students? Do you have any logical way to cope with difficult
situations? 

Cops deal with people under influence (of rage, alcohol, or fear) every day.
And smart cops have great, powerful and gentle solutions to teach us. I believe
that this knowledge has to be taught in schools. Nothing more to add, just use
it.

The author of this book is George J. Thompson was a great personality. Watch
his lecture to add his voice and charisma to the narrative and to learn better
["Verbal Judo: Diffusing Conflict Through
Conversation"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=btBw70HAys4).  


***

### So good they can't ignore you

_by Cal Newport_

_read on 2014/04_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_newport.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

Computer scientists can write PP books. This one appeals to our logic and makes
a point that mastery breeds passion and fulfilling work, and not necessarily
the other way round. 

In the search for fulfilling work Cal's advices look sober and well supported.
Creativity, Impact, Control, Career Capital, Mission and Adjacent Possible --
the words that become meaningful and help thinking about work that defines
oneself.  Notably, his logic discourages people from "dropping everything and
starting from scratch" as being unsustainable -- he suggests to take little
steps that allow one to move _with support_ from one point in life to another. 

Personally, in this book I met a few people that worked in the same
institutions as I did. Because of this, the book resonated with me, not only
through logic, but also as being near in time and space.

***

###  Seeking wisdom. From Darwin to Munger

_by Peter Bevelin_

_read on 2012/12_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_bevelin.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

Want more logical unobstructed thinking to help you? Inhale the wisdom.
Wisdom, probability and statistics, this is what this book is about. Do the
math and take all the important decisions.

***

### A guide to the good life

_by William Braxton Irvine_

_read on 2013/06_

![]( {{ base_path }}/images/book_irvine.jpg  ){:  height="" width="135px"}

Digested lessons from the Stoics. Wise men from two millennia ago can teach us
how to deal with social pressure, how to tackle difficulties, and how to live a
good life.

William carefully translates the thoughts of sages from their times to our
context in which it still makes a lot of sense. Wonderful, clear and rewarding
reading.

***

<!-- ## Cooking -->

<!-- ### Modernist cuisine  -->

<!-- coming soon... -->

<!-- *** -->

<!-- ### Modernist cuisine at home -->
<!--  -->
<!-- coming soon... -->
<!--  -->
<!-- *** --> 
<!-- ## Children books for adults -->
<!--  -->
<!-- *** -->

